# Particle in a Box Lab Materials
The particle-in-a-box model is a quintessential concept for teaching Physical Chemistry that students often struggle understanding because of the heavier math components and relevancy of a very abstract concept. In the laboratory, the particle-in-a-box is typically demonstrated through the absorption of conjugated dyes where carbocyanine dyes of varying chain length are measured using UV-vis absorption spectroscopy to calculate the wavelength of maximum absorbance (λmax¬) of the absorption spectrum, which in turn corresponds to the π-π* transition. Students would measure the experimental spectrum for each dye and compare the λmax¬ to an analytical formula where the length of C atoms helps determine the transition energy. By including components from computational chemistry to classic physical chemistry experiments, students are engaged in gaining a deeper understanding of physical chemistry through laboratory experiences. In this version of the particle-in-a-box experiment, time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) is used to calculate the excitation wavelengths of specific transitions and simulate UV-vis absorption while Python codes are implemented to compute the energies of the particle in a finite well model, which yields a theoretical λmax, and to combine both experimental and computed spectra to elucidate the transitions responsible for key transitions in UV-vis absorption spectra. Students get increased visibility to read and manipulate code to develop cyberinfrastructure skills related to data manipulation and visualization while bridging how molecular orbital theory connects to the particle-in-a-box model. When combined, these techniques showcase how students are engaged with Physical Chemistry via an appreciation of computational chemistry and modeling.

This repository has the information for a Physical Chemistry Lab using TDDFT to visualize the connection between MO theory, UV-vis absorption, and the paritcle-in-a-box models (infinite and finite wells). Handouts and Python codes that will run on Google Colab are included.
